# ACL

An Access Control List \(ACL\) allows you to define classification rules or establish criteria to provide security to your network by blocking unauthorized users and allowing authorized users to access specific areas or resources. ACLs can provide basic security for access to the network by controlling whether packets are forwarded or blocked at the switch ports. Access Control Lists \(ACLs\) are filters that allow you to classify data packets according to content in the packet header, such as the source address, destination address, source port number, destination port number, and more. Packet classifiers identify flows for more efficient processing. Each filter defines the conditions that must match for inclusion in the filter. ACLs \(Access Control Lists\) provide packet filtering for IP frames \(based on the protocol, TCP/UDP port number or frame type\) or layer 2 frames \(based on any destination MAC address for unicast, broadcast, or multicast, or based on VLAN ID or VLAN tag priority\). ACLs can be used to improve performance by blocking unnecessary network traffic or to implement security controls by restricting access to specific network resources or protocols. Policies can be used to differentiate service for client ports, server ports, network ports, or guest ports. They can also be used to strictly control network traffic by only allowing incoming frames that match the source MAC and source IP address on a specific port. ACLs are composed of Access Control Entries \(ACEs\), which are rules that determine traffic classifications. Each ACE is a considered a single rule, and up to 256 rules may be defined on each ACL, with up to 3000 rules globally. ACLs are used to provide traffic flow control, restrict contents of routing updates, and determine which types of traffic are forwarded or blocked. This criterion can be specified based on the MAC address or IP address.  
 

